The balance sheet takes a snapshot of a firm's accounting value at a certain time.
# Assets
In a balance sheet, the assets are listed in descending order of liquidity.
## Current assets
Assets that can be converted into cash within a year.
### Cash and equivalents
Cash or assets that can be converted into cash immediately
- bank accounts
- money market funds
- commercial paper
   - treasury bills
### Accounts receivable
Money owed to the companies by customers who purchase goods or services on credit
### Inventory
Inventory includes raw materials, work in progress, and finished products
### Prepaid expenses
- eg: a company pays $120,000 for a one-year insurance policy
	- the full $120,000 is recorded as a prepaid expense
	- each month $10,000 is expensed as "insurance expense" and deducted from the prepaid amount
## Fixed assets
Assets that have a life longer than one year
### Tangible assets
- have a physical form
- property, plant, equipment, etc.
### Intangible assets
- no physical form
- trademarks, patterns, copyrights, etc. 
# Liabilities
The company's debt and other financial obligations.
## Current liabilities
Liabilities to be fulfilled within a year.
### Accounts payable
Amounts owed for goods/services already received and invoiced
### Accrued expenses
Amounts owed for goods/services used, but not yet invoiced
## Long-term liabilities
Liabilities that are due more than a year from the date on the balance sheet.
### Long-term debt
### Deferred tax liabilities
### Pension liabilities
# Equity
Equities represent the residual interest in the assets of a corporation after deducting liabilities. They show the net worth of the company from the owners perspective.
- Total shareholders' equity
	- aka net worth
	- aka book value of equity
	- common stock + paid-in capital + retained earnings + etc.
The book value is often very different from the market value
- **book value** is based on accounting
- **market value** is what investors think the company is worth (stock price x total shares)
[[Primary and secondary markets]]
## Share capital
Money from issuing shares. 
- a nominal value is assigned to the stock
- this par value is recorded as share capital
### Common stock
### Preferred stock
[[More on common and preferred stocks]]
## Share premium
- aka **paid-in capital**
- amount received over and above the par value
[[Why the split between share capital and paid-in capital?]]
## Retained earnings
- cumulative profits retained in the business
- amount earned and kept
- not distributed as dividends
## Reserves
- funds set aside for specific purposes
- general and capital reserves
# Balance sheet identity
- Assets == Liabilities + Stockholders' Equity
- LHS == RHS on the balance sheet
# Metadata
## Date
16-07-2025, 13:49
## Course
Introduction to Finance
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
## Instructor
Xi Yang
## Module
[[Financial Statements and Cash Flow]]
## References
## Tags
#finance 